17/01/2021

Lego Mindstorms EV3

Large Motor and Colour Sensor

Runs between 7pm and 7.30pm

Reflectivity of numbers 0 to 9 (Reflected light intensity)

Motor Power = 20
Rotations/run = 5 (1800 degrees)
Runs per number = 5
Total rotations per number = 25
Duration of run = 10 seconds
Duration of rotation = 8.82 seconds
Sampling rate = 20/second

How is accuracy affected by:
- speed of rotation
- distance from the color sensor
- number of experiments performed
- sampling rate
- reflectivity of background
- size of the degree buckets
- ambient light level and direction
- number material (wood, metal)


Experiment Steps
1. Describe the experiment, theory behind it and what trying to achieve (unique reflectivity signature)
2. Equipment and instructions
3. Build and test model. Optimim settings. 
4. Capture the results
5. EDA
6. Clean and prepare the results (jupyter and python)
7. Create an ML model, calculate accuracy and save model
8. Algorithm to predict 'live' results on lego model
9. Conveyor belt of letters measured for reflectivity
10. Room for improvement. Effect of changing settings


TO DO
Python code to:
- run lego model on press of physical button
- record result
- save results locally as file
- clean and prepare data
- make prediction using model
- display prediction prominently

Discussion Points
- using Lego Robot Inventor ... limitations
- doing the alphabet (upper and lowercase)

- Write experiment to blog and create YouTube videos
- Host code, build instructions and model on GitHub


Use SFTP to transfer data file from ev3 to laptop for analysis?
https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/106480/how-to-copy-files-from-one-machine-to-another-using-ssh

Use SSH to transfer files?


After 1st prediction test
1. reflectivity column has a 'space' prefix
2. do training on 50 rotations per number
3. stop the platform over-spinning
4. take the most frequent prediction or median as the result
5. print the avg/median graph of unknown vs graph of predicted


Other Experiments

1. Bouncing ball - height estimator
2. Character recognition - trigger something - speech, action, e.g calculation 5 + 2?
3. Jelly bean / Skittles / Revels / Quality Street / Coin separator & counter
4. Salt solution concentration using temperature sensor for cooling speed
5. Using sensors for classification problems
6. Can system send or receive text message when something happens or to trigger an activity
7. Slot machine - identifies coin for certain number of plays or total calculation
8. NFC simulator - subtracts from account on recognition of number/value/purchase(e.g. fruit) - prints receipt

